>> Speaker 1: So mergeSort,
we have our base case here.
When your array is a sorted list of
length one, we are gonna return that.
A couple other things that we need to
do is we're going to find the middle.
We're gonna slice it into a left and
right side.
And then we're going to recursively
merge the left and the right.
Previously, we did something like this
where we said,
>> Speaker 1: We said sortedLeft.
This is how we had it before.
And I'll put it like that, so
that it's a little bit easier.
>> Speaker 1: So we'll just merge
the sortedLeft with
the sortedRight just to
keep it a little more
consistent with the pseudo
code that we were going through earlier.
All right, and here's our merge routine,
which we have outside of our defined
function.
>> Speaker 1: So you can
see how we're keeping track of our left
and our right indices as we are pushing.
We push, we increment, we push,
we increment that one
until they're all empty,
they're both empty.
>> Speaker 1: Okay,
we also wanna say about this.
So the way this executes is exactly
as we went over in the pseudocode.
>> Speaker 1: Yeah, here it is for
your viewing pleasure.
>> Speaker 1: Mergesort.
>> Speaker 1: What's the most complicated
thing to you about Mergesort?
>> Speaker 1: Is
it the recursion, is it the merging part?
>> Speaker 2: It's the recursion that
also calls the different function.
>> Speaker 1: Mm-hm,
so we have this forking recursion,
which is a little bit different
than our other recursive examples.
We weren't forking, right?
So we recursed left and recursed right,
yeah.
>> Speaker 2: We
may think hypothetically it makes sense.
It's really more the code part of it.
There are just so many detail.
How do you keep track of
all of the moving parts?
>> Speaker 1: Mm-hm.
>> Speaker 2: That's where, for me,
it's hard to wrap my brain around that.
But I understand how it works in theory,
when you show the diagram of it.
>> Speaker 1: Yeah, yeah,
yeah.
>> Speaker 2: It's the implemetation
that's the-
>> Speaker 1: [CROSSTALK] Yeah,
absolutely, and
that's one of those things, yeah,
it comes with doing this translation from,
okay, here's a pretty picture.
How do we translate that into real code?
We're drawing boxes, but
what does that box represent?
What is that native structure?
We have these arrows pointing,
what does that arrow mean?
Is that a function call?
Is that a loop?
So these are all important
things to get some practice on.
But yeah, I agree that that's
the most complex part for
most people is to make that leap.
>> Speaker 2: So
what it would be the real test case for
it, right, or use case for it?
Like what would you like, you know what?
Mergesort is exactly
the solution that I need in
this particular-
>> Speaker 1: So
Mergesort is one of the best sorts.
So if you ever need to sort anything for
an interview, Mergesort is
probably what they're looking for.
Quick sort is what JavaScript
uses under the hood.
I think it might also sometimes use
Mergesort, depending on the scenario.
But yeah,
pretty much if you wanted to impress
an interviewer over the sorting question,
you can always implement Mergesort.
However, my interviewing strategy in
general is to start with a simple answer.
Reference the more complicated answer, but
not necessarily jump into
implementing Mergesort.
In a high-pressure scenario,
there's a lot of ways it could go wrong.
And you wanna optimize it for
things going right.
So you could say something like,
is it all right if I start with a naive
sorting algorithm like bubble sort?
i understand that in a lot of
cases it's quadratic time.
And it would be better to do
maybe something like Mergesort,
which is n log n.
However, I think within the time
constraints of our interview,
it would be easier if I just
went with a bubble sort.
Or you can just not even talk about
Mergesort, implement it in bubble sort.
Say that you could do better by
doing a divide and conquer sort.
So acknowledge that you
understand you've heard of it.
But try to avoid implementing it.
This is my strategy.
Just because if you see
it's quite a bit of code.
You could do off by one.
There's a lot of situations where,
here's another place we go off by one.
There are a lot of places
where you can mess it up.
So I think if you can get away with it,
don't do this.
But if you're really good at it and you
wanna get really good at it, then yeah,
that would be very
impressive to do Mergesort.
I would be impressed if someone did
a Mergesort in one of my interviews.
But I don't ask those kinda questions.
But big companies do.
Mm-hm?
>> Speaker 2: Can I ask you what,
give us an example of what people
ask you during the interview
where you have to use a sort to answer it?
>> Speaker 1: Yeah,
I would just say you have an array
of unsorted integers, sort them.
>> Speaker 2: That's just mostly the case,
right?
>> Speaker 1: Mm-hm.
>> Speaker 2: They're not gonna go really
complex?
>> Speaker 1: Well, so for example,
there might be code words for
you have a list and
maybe you have timestamps.
Or you're filtering by
the oldest timestamps.
And so like the thing that you're
comparing might not be an integer.
It could be a date or something.
Yeah, what else?
Yeah, and I think so there are other
scenarios where if your list is sorted,
for example like a binary search, so
if your list is already sorted,
then that helps you.
And so you can always do
the JavaScript native sort as well.
You just have to remember if it's
a comparison sort with numbers,
you need to remember that callback.
What you do, you call a, b, a- b.
Remember that, and then you can get around
all of this raw implementation detail.
But there are some scenarios where
having a list that's sorted will
make your algorithm faster,
like for a binary search.
So if you're trying to search, you say,
okay, well, can I sort it first?
Once it's sorted, it can speed things up.
Or you could get it sorted,
that's nice, too.